LSTMs, as I've mentioned before,
are the best known solution to
the vanishing gradients problem.
Let me tell you about it.
Now, I'll give you
a high-level view
into the LSTM model,
what's its architecture
looks like,
along with a few examples of
what they're used for
in the real-world.
The LSTM is a special variety
of RNN that was
designed to handle
entire sequences of data by
learning when to remember
and went to forget,
which is similar to what
is done in the GRU.
An LSTM is essentially
composed of a cell state,
which you can think
of as its memory.
The hidden state where
computations are
performed during training to
decide on what changes to make.
An LSTM has multiple gates
that transformed the
states in the network.
The cell state travels through
these gates and track
inputs as it's arrives,
each one plays a
part in deciding
how much information to pass
along and how much leave behind.
The series of gates allows
the gradients to flow,
avoiding the risk of vanishing
or exploding gradients.
Let's take a moment to relate
this concept to something
you might find a
bit more familiar.
Imagine receiving a phone
call from your best friend,
at the time your phone rings,
you might be thinking
of any number
of things unrelated
to your friend.
When you answer the call,
you put aside those
unrelated thoughts
while retaining anything that
concerns the both of you.
As your friend gives you
some more information
on why he's calling,
you'll be thinking of what else
might be relevant to talk about.
With the inputs from
your friend and
whatever relevant
information you had in mind,
you'll start the
conversation with him.
You will then continue to evolve
the conversation in this
way until you hang up.
At the end of the call,
you'll have a memory with
the most relevant information
from your conversation.
That's how an LSTM works.
It updates the cell and hidden
states constantly using
multiple gates so that
relevant information is
passed along the network and
used to produce outputs.
Let's take a look at
the basic anatomy of
a typical LSTM units and
what each part does.
An LSTM stores information in
the cell and hidden
states which are
denoted by C and H. As
with the [inaudible] RNNs,
we have inputs X and outputs Y.
On the LSTM, there are
multiple computations performed
within a single units.
Here, the information
flows through three
different gates.
First, you have
the cell state goes
through a forget gate.
In this step, the inputs and
the previous hidden
states are used to
decide which information from
the cell state is no longer
important and throws it away.
Then the input gate
is used to decide
which information
from the inputs and
the previous hidden
state is relevant,
so it is added to
the cell state.
Finally, the outputs gate
determines the information
from the cell state
that is stored in
the hidden state and
used to construct an output
at the given timestep.
Before diving deeper
into the math,
let's discuss some of the
many applications of LSTMs.
As you might have guessed, it is
very handy for building
language models,
spanning use cases from
predicting the next
character of your email
to building chat bots
capable of remembering
longer conversations.
Music composition can
be done with LSTMs.
This approach makes
a lot of sense
considering that's
music is built using
long sequences of nodes much
like texts uses long
sequences of words.
Other cool applications are
automatic image captioning
and speech recognition.
In overcoming the problems
of a traditional RNN,
the LSTM has become
an incredibly popular tool
with a wide range of uses and
has helped evolve NLP in
some exciting ways
that's all discussed
in more detail towards
the end of this week.
In summary, LSTMs
are a solution to
the vanishing gradients
problem and that
typical LSTMs have cell
and hidden states
and three gates,
which are the forget gate,
inputs gates, and outputs gates.
Now you understand LSTMs
on the high level.
But what exactly is the math
behind the LSTM computation?
I'll show you this
in the next video.